# Superlinear scaling of riverine biogechemical function with watershed size
## Nature communications
### Wolheim et al.
Rivers connect multiple components of the earth system: land, oceans, and atmosphere. Through these connections, rivers regulate the metabolism of nutrients like carbon (i.e. biogeochemical function). Currently, researches can estimate the metabolic rate of a stream reach, or even a catchment. It is unknown, however, how to estimate the metabolic rate of an entire continent or at a global scale. In this article the authors demonstrate that riverine metabolic rates increase at a faster pace than the acumulated watershed area (i.e. superlinear scaling). They use a statistical approach (i.e. allometric scaling) to show how the relationship between biogeochemical function and watershed area depends on the shape of the river network (different configuration were tested in simulations), discharge, and local metabolic rates. These findings mean that large basins have a disproportionate large contribution to the global metabolism of Carbon. 

Edited version: 
Rivers connect multiple components of the earth system: land, oceans, and atmosphere. Through these connections, rivers regulate the metabolism of nutrients like carbon (i.e., biogeochemical function). Currently, researchers can estimate the metabolic rate of a stream reach or even a catchment. It is unknown, however, how to calculate the metabolic rate of an entire continent or on a global scale. According to the authors, riverine metabolic rates increase faster than accumulated watershed areas (superlinear scaling). By using allometric scaling, the researchers show how river network shape, discharge, and local metabolic rates influence the relationship between biogeochemical function and watershed area. According to these findings, large basins contribute disproportionately to global carbon metabolism. 

This text is part of the development of [[PRODUCTS]]: [[Wolheim_etal_summary]]